# LPI 701 DevOps Tools Engineer

## Intro & General info

DevOps is a set of software development practices that combine **software development (Dev)** and **information-technology operations (Ops)** to shorten the **systems development life cycle** while **delivering features, fixes and updates frequently** in close alignment with business objectives.

Content coverage

- Machine Deployment
  - Vagrant
  - Vagrant Boxes
  - Packer and Cloud Init
- Configuration Management
  - Configuration Management with Ansible, Puppet, and Chef
- Container Management
  - Docker and Kubernetes
  - Docker Compose
  - Docker Swarm and Docker Machine
- Software Engineering
  - Modern Software Development
  - CI/CD and Jenkins
  - Source Control using Git
  - Deploying Code to Production
  - Standard Components and Platforms for Software
  - CrossSite Scripting, ACID, and CAP Theorem
- Service Operations
  - Prometheus
  - Logstash

Recommended additional learning:

- Learning Vagrant
- Using Ansible for Configuration Management and Deployments
- Docker Certified Associate Prep Course / Docker Deep Dive
- Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA)
- CoreOS essentials
- Implementing a Full CI/CD pipeline
- Source Control with Git
- Elastic Stack Essentials

Exam requirements/details:

- Working knowledge of DevOps-related domains such as Software Engineering and Architecture, Container and Machine Deployment, Configuration Management and Monitoring - just the tools and tech
- Exam Format: 90 minutes / 60 multiple choice and fill-in-the-blank questions
- Prerequisites: N/A, LPIC-1 is strongly recommended
- Cost ~ 200 USD
- Certification is valid for 5 years

## Vagrant

### What is Vagrant

### Install Vagrant

### Vagrant Commands

### Vagrant Files

### Accessing Vagrant VMs

## Docker Compose

### Installing Docker Compose

Docker Compose - tool to define and run multiple Docker applications. Docker Compose uses YAML files to configure application services. E.g. Docker Compose file can define nginx and MySQL services linked together.

[Install the plugin manually](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/linux/#install-the-plugin-manually)

### Docker Compose Commands

```YAML
# docker-compose.yml
version: '3.3'
services:
  redis:
    image: redis:latest
  nginx: 
    image: nginx:latest
```

```Bash
# Get Docker Compose version
docker-compose version
docker-compose -h
# Takes docker file and build image out of it
docker-compose build
# Default Docker Compose file name is docker-compose.yml or docker-compose.yaml
# if you use different name you will need to specify it with -f flag
# Start services in foreground
docker-compose up
# View/list containers
docker-compose ps
```

### Creating a Docker Compose File

- expose Section - this property defines the ports that Docker Compose exposes from the container. These ports will be **accessible by other services connected to the same network** but **won't be published on the host machine**.
- ports Section -  this property defines the ports that we want to expose from the container. But unlike with the expose configuration, **these ports will be accessible internally and published on the host machine**.

### Setting Up an Environment with Docker Compose

### Docker Compose Recap

## Recap

### Software Engineering OD 21$

**Monolith arhitecture** is best described as a **single unit**.
**Microservice architecture** is best described as **fine grained**.

HTTP status codes:

200 - GET - return 200 (OK), PUT - return 200 (OK), DELETE
201 - POST - return 201 (CREATED)

### Container Management OD 24%

```Bash
# Command to deploy service using Docker Swarm called 'myservice' across cluster and deploy it with at least 3 replicas
docker service create --name myservice --replicas=5 https
# Comand above will create the 'myservice' service from the 'httpd' image with 5 replicas running across the nodes available in the cluster
docker service create --name service_name --replicas=5 image_name

# Command to stop Docker Swarm service
docker service rm service_name
# Command above will remowe the service, which stops it. There is no equivalent 'stop' command.

# Docker volume data stored on the Docker server under the following path
/var/lib/docker/volumes/volume-name/_data
# /var/lib/docker/volumes

# Get a view of processes that are running in Docker Compose environment
docker-compose ps
# like a typical ps comand, docker-compose ps lists running process within the docker-compose environment
```

Command to get configuration in JSON format from Docker Machine

```Bash
# This command will show a full list of the configuration information for the running/active machine
docker-machine inspect <machine_name>
```

Which Kubernetes service is used for centralized cluster configuration and state management?

**etcd** - this service allows Kubernetes to orchestrate services and applications to the nodes registerd in its cluster. If it does not work master server is unable to query state of the cluster nodes joined to the cluster.

Which **docker-compose command** that allow you to suspend the **environment's** container/services without killing it and without requirung a full restart?

**docker-compose pause**

The 'pause' option will temporarily suspend a docker-compose environment without stopping or killing it.

### Machine Deployment OD 14%

```Bash
# Vagrant
# After makin changes to provisioner to update Vagrant environment with changes
vagrant provision
# vagrant provision runs any configured provisioners against the running Vagrant managed machine
```

### Configuration Management OD 27%

Sample Puppet code snippet

```JSON
user { ‘username’:
  ensure     => present,
  uid        => ‘102’,
  gid        => ‘wheel’,
  shell      => ‘/bin/bash’,
  home       => ‘/home/username’,
  managehome => true,
}
```

```Bash
# Puppet
# Perform a Puppet run from the managed node, after updating Puppet modules on master server
puppet agent # Manages systems, with the help of a Puppet master
puppet apply # Manages systems without needing to contact a Puppet master server
# To inspect a puppet resource
puppet resource # Lets you interactively inspect and manipulate resources on a system
puppet parser # Lets you validate Puppet code to make sure it contains no syntax errors
```

Chef DK or Chef Development Kit can be used to get the tools to test Chef code.
Chef DSL is Ruby.

### Service Operations OD 14%

**blackbox_exporter**
The blackbox exporter allows blackbox probing of endpoints over HTTP, HTTPS, DNS, TCP and ICMP.
**statsd_exporter**
statsd_exporter receives StatsD-style metrics and exports them as Prometheus metrics.

Grok syntax - the identifier you give to the piece of text being matched.
Grok semantic - the name of the pattern that will match your text.


### Standard Components and Platforms for Software

OpenStack Components

- **Swift** - OpenStack component responsible for managing object storage
- **Horizon** - provides administrators and users with a graphical interface to access, provision, and automate deployment of cloud-based resources
- **Trove** - Database as a Service for OpenStack
- **Zaqar** - multi-tenant cloud messaging and notification service for OpenStack 
- **Neutron** - system for managing networks and IP addresses
- **Nova** - Nova manage and automate pools of computer resources

IaaS Platforms

- AWS
- VMware vSphere
- GCP

Cloud Foundry supported languages:

- Java
- Ruby
- Node.js
- Python

Cloud Foundry supports Java, Python, Node.js and Ruby.

CDN - geographically distributed network of proxy servers.

PaaS
- You manage: Applications; Data;
- Provider manages: Runtime; Middleware; O/S; Virtualization; Servers; Storage; Network;


## Prometheus and Logstash

Logstash

- Extensible thanks to plugin ecosystem
- 3 event processing stages - inputs, filters, outputs


Prometheus

- Collects metrics by scraping them from HTTP endpoints/targets
- Every time series data has labels and metric name

Grok syntax is the identifier you give to the piece of text being matched.